# AssignRoadMiles Module

[Module Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#assignroadmiles)

## marea_lane_miles.csv ❇️

>This file contains inputs on the numbers of freeway lane-miles and arterial lane-miles and is used in the AssignRoadMiles module. For each state, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out two fields.
>- _FwyLaneMi_ - Lane-miles of roadways functionally classified as freeways or expressways in the urbanized portion of the metropolitan area
>- _ArtLaneMi_ - Lane-miles of roadways functionally classified as arterials (but not freeways or expressways) in the urbanized portion of the metropolitan area

[Input Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#user-input-files-13)

### Sourcing
Not sure if Peeping TIM is still around but perhaps we could get this data from that. Otherwise we can take a TIM 2019/2020 lane miles and 2050

May have been calculated for impacts.

# AssignTransitService module

[Module + Inputs Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#assigntransitservice)

## bzone_transit_service.csv ❇️

>This file supplies the data on relative public transit accessibility and is used in the AssignTransitService module. For each state, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out one field.
>- _D4c_ - Aggregate frequency of transit service within 0.25 miles of block group boundary per hour during evening peak period (Ref: EPA 2010 Smart Location Database)

### Sourcing - SLD
Another reason for building block group Bzones, at least initially. If TAZ Bzones become compelling, we can figure out the [SLD methodology](https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2021-06/documents/epa_sld_3.0_technicaldocumentationuserguide_may2021.pdf) and apply it to the travel model transit schedules, considering the time period adjustments made for AM, MD, PM, and NT from GTFS. We can use the conformity forecast aggregate frequency for a baseline in the horizon year. But for now, we can just get this [here](https://geodata.epa.gov/arcgis/rest/services/OA/SmartLocationDatabase/MapServer/14).


## marea_transit_service.csv ❇️

>This file contains annual revenue-miles for different transit modes for metropolitan area and is used in the AssignTransitService module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out eight fields.
>- _DRRevMi_ - Annual revenue-miles of demand-responsive public transit service
>- _VPRevMi_ - Annual revenue-miles of van-pool and similar public transit service
>- _MBRevMi_ - Annual revenue-miles of standard bus public transit service
>- _RBRevMi_ - Annual revenue-miles of rapid-bus and commuter bus public transit service
>- _MGRevMi_ - Annual revenue-miles of monorail and automated guideway public transit service
>- _SRRevMi_ - Annual revenue-miles of streetcar and trolleybus public transit service
>- _HRRevMi_ - Annual revenue-miles of light rail and heavy rail public transit service
>- _CRRevMi_ - Annual revenue-miles of commuter rail, hybrid rail, cable car, and aerial tramway public transit service
### Sourcing
National Transit Database (NTD) could be base, but might want TIM data.

