# AssignDrivers Module

[Module + Input Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#assigndrivers)

## region_hh_driver_adjust_prop.csv ❇️

>This file specifies the relative driver licensing rate relative to the model estimation data year and is used in the AssignDrivers module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out five fields.
>- _Drv15to19AdjProp_ - Target proportion of unadjusted model number of drivers 15 to 19 years old (1 = no adjustment)
>- _Drv20to29AdjProp_ - Target proportion of unadjusted model number of drivers 20 to 29 years old (1 = no adjustment)
>- _Drv30to54AdjProp_ - Target proportion of unadjusted model number of drivers 30 to 54 years old (1 = no adjustment)
>- _Drv55to64AdjProp_ - Target proportion of unadjusted model number of drivers 55 to 64 years old (1 = no adjustment)
>- _Drv65PlusAdjProp_ - Target proportion of unadjusted model number of drivers 65 or older (1 = no adjustment)
### Sourcing
Ask around if anyone has driver's license data. But likely use sample data. It may be difficult to get from the state DOTs.

# AssignVehicleAge Module

[Module + Input Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#assignvehicleage)



## azone_hh_veh_mean_age.csv ❇️

>This file provides inputs for mean auto age and mean light truck age and is used in the AssignVehicleAge module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out two fields.
>- _AutoMeanAgep_ - Mean age of automobiles owned or leased by households.
>- _LtTrkMeanAgep_ - Mean age of light trucks owned or leased by households.

### Sourcing
Ask Rob Graff about license plate data. MOVES model has assumptions on vehicle age (talk to Brad Lane).

# AssignVehicleType Module

[Module Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#assignvehicletype)

## azone_lttrk_prop.csv ❇️

>This file specifies the light truck proportion of the vehicle fleet and is used in AssignVehicleType module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out one field.
>- _LtTrkProp_ - Proportion of household vehicles that are light trucks (pickup, SUV, van).

[Input Documentation](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/sources/modules/VEHouseholdVehicles/inst/module_docs/AssignVehicleType.md#azone_hh_lttrk_propcsv)

### Sourcing
Double check that ACS doesn't have type, but ask Rob Graff about license plate data or possibly MOVES (Brad Lane)


# CalculateVehicleOwnCost module

## azone_hh_veh_own_taxes.csv ❇️

>This file provides inputs for flat fees/taxes (i.e. annual cost per vehicle) and ad valorem taxes (i.e. percentage of vehicle value paid in taxes). The file is used in CalculateVehicleOwnCost module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out two fields.
>- _VehOwnFlatRateFee_ - Annual flat rate tax per vehicle in dollars.
>- _VehOwnAdValoremTax_ - Annual proportion of vehicle value paid in taxes.

[Input Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#user-input-files)

### Sourcing
Flat rate tax should be from DMV from each state (regisration fee--make sure it's annual). Should inspection fee be included (ask Jeremy).

Vehicle value is tough. Look at what other VE users say they did. Could also use sample data for now, but hard to know how Oregon taxes might differ.

## azone_payd_insurance_prop.csv ❇️

>This file provides inputs on the proportion of households having PAYD (pay-as-you-drive) insurance and is used in the CalculateVehicleOwnCost module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out one field.
>- _PaydHhProp_ - Proportion of households in the Azone who have pay-as-you-drive insurance for their vehicles.

[Input Documentation](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/sources/modules/VEHouseholdVehicles/inst/module_docs/CalculateVehicleOwnCost.md#azone_payd_insurance_propcsv)

### Sourcing
Could google. Call Liberty Mutual or some other companies. Sample data could be used.