# AssignHHVehiclePowertrain Module

[Module + Inputs Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#assignhhvehiclepowertrain
)
## azone_charging_availability.csv ❇️

>This file has data on proportion of different household types who has EV charging available and is used in the AssignHHVehiclePowertrain module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out three fields.
>- _PropSFChargingAvail_ - Proportion of single-family dwellings in Azone that have PEV charging facilties installed or able to be installed
>- _PropMFChargingAvail_ - Proportion of multi-family dwelling units in Azone that have PEV charging facilities available
>- _PropGQChargingAvail_ - Proportion of group quarters dwelling units in Azone that have PEV charging facilities available
### Sourcing


## region_carsvc_powertrain_prop.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the powertrain proportion of car services and is optional. The file is used in the Initialize (VETravelPerformance), AssignHhVehiclePowertrain and AdjustHhVehicleMpgMpkwh modules. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out six fields.
>- _CarSvcAutoPropIcev_ - Proportion of car service automobile travel powered by internal combustion engine powertrains
>- _CarSvcAutoPropHev_ - Proportion of car service automobile travel powered by hybrid electric powertrains
>- _CarSvcAutoPropBev_ - Proportion of car service automobile travel powered by battery electric powertrains
>- _CarSvcLtTrkPropIcev_ - Proportion of car service light truck travel powered by internal combustion engine powertrains
>- _CarSvcLtTrkPropHev_ - Proportion of car service light truck travel powered by hybrid electric powertrains
>- _CarSvcLtTrkPropBev_ - Proportion of car service light truck travel powered by battery electric powertrains
### Sourcing


# CalculateCarbonIntensity modules

[Module + Input Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#calculatecarbonintensity)

## azone_electricity_carbon_intensity.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the carbon intensity of electricity and is optional (only needed if user wants to modify the values). The file is used in Initialize (VEPowertrainsAndFuels) and CalculateCarbonIntensity modules. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out one field.
>- _ElectricityCI_ - Carbon intensity of electricity at point of consumption (grams CO2e per megajoule)
### Sourcing


## marea_transit_biofuel_mix.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the biofuel used by transit and is optional. The file is used in the Initialize (VETravelPerformance) and CalculateCarbonIntensity modules. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out seven fields.
>- _TransitEthanolPropGasoline_ - Ethanol proportion of gasoline used by transit vehicles
>- _TransitBiodieselPropDiesel_ - Biodiesel proportion of diesel used by transit vehicles
>- _TransitRngPropCng_ - Renewable natural gas proportion of compressed natural gas used by transit vehicles

### Sourcing


## marea_transit_fuel.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the transit fuel proportions and is optional. The file is used in the Initialize (VETravelPerformance) and CalculateCarbonIntensity modules. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out seven fields.
>- _VanPropDiesel_ - Proportion of non-electric transit van travel powered by diesel
>- _VanPropGasoline_ - Proportion of non-electric transit van travel powered by gasoline
>- _VanPropCng_ - Proportion of non-electric transit van travel powered by compressed natural gas
>- _BusPropDiesel_ - Proportion of non-electric transit bus travel powered by diesel
>- _BusPropGasoline_ - Proportion of non-electric transit bus travel powered by gasoline
>- _BusPropCng_ - Proportion of non-electric transit bus travel powered by compressed natural gas
>- _RailPropDiesel_ - Proportion of non-electric transit rail travel powered by diesel
>- _RailPropGasoline_ - Proportion of non-electric transit rail travel powered by gasoline

### Sourcing

## region_ave_fuel_carbon_intensity.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the average carbon density for different vehicle types and is optional (only needed if user wants to modify the values). The file is used in the Initialize (VETravelPerformance) and CalculateCarbonIntensity modules. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out seven fields.
>- _HhFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuels used by household vehicles (grams CO2e per megajoule)
CarSvcFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuels used by car service vehicles (grams CO2e per megajoule)
ComSvcFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuels used by commercial service vehicles (grams CO2e per megajoule)
HvyTrkFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuels used by heavy trucks (grams CO2e per megajoule)
TransitVanFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuels used by transit vans (grams CO2e per megajoule)
TransitBusFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuels used by transit buses (grams CO2e per megajoule)
TransitRailFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuels used by transit rail vehicles (grams CO2e per megajoule)
### Sourcing


# CalculateComEnergyAndEmissions module

[Module + Input Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#calculatecomenergyandemissions)

## region_comsvc_lttrk_prop.csv ❇️

>This file supplies data for the light truck proportion of commercial vehicles and is used in the CalculateComEnergyAndEmissions module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out six fields.
>- _ComSvcAutoPropIcev_ - Proportion of commercial service automobile travel powered by internal combustion engine powertrains
>- _ComSvcAutoPropHev_ - Proportion of commercial service automobile travel powered by hybrid electric powertrains
>- _ComSvcAutoPropBev_ - Proportion of commercial service automobile travel powered by battery electric powertrains
>- _ComSvcLtTrkPropIcev_ - Proportion of commercial service light truck travel powered by internal combustion engine powertrains
>- _ComSvcLtTrkPropHev_ - Proportion of commercial service light truck travel powered by hybrid electric powertrains
>- _ComSvcLtTrkPropBev_ - Proportion of commercial service light truck travel powered by battery electric powertrainss
### Sourcing


## region_comsvc_powertrain_prop.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the powertrain proportion of commercial vehicles and is optional. The file is used in the Initialize (VEPowertrainsAndFuels) and CalculateComEnergyAndEmissions modules.

### Sourcing


## region_hvytrk_powertrain_prop.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the powertrain proportion of heavy duty trucks and is optional. The file is used in the Initialize (VEPowertrainsAndFuels) and CalculateComEnergyAndEmissions modules. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out three fields.
>- _HvyTrkPropIcev_ - Proportion of heavy truck travel powered by internal combustion engine powertrains
>- _HvyTrkPropHev_ - Proportion of heavy truck travel powered by hybrid electric powertrains
>- _HvyTrkPropBev_ - Proportion of heavy truck travel powered by battery electric powertrains

# Initialize-VEPowerTrainsandFuels Module

[Module + Input Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Modules_and_Outputs.md/#initialize-vepowertrainsandfuels)


## marea_transit_ave_fuel_carbon_intensity.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the average carbon intensity of fuel used by transit and is optional. The file is used in the Initialize (VETravelPerformance) module. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out three fields.
>- _TransitVanFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuel used by transit vans (grams CO2e per megajoule)
>- _TransitBusFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuel used by transit buses (grams CO2e per megajoule)
>- _TransitRailFuelCI_ - Average carbon intensity of fuel used by transit rail vehicles (grams CO2e per megajoule)
### Sourcing


## marea_transit_powertrain_prop.csv ✴️

>This file is used to specify the mixes of transit vehicle powertrains and is optional. The file is used in the Initialize (VETravelPerformance) and CalculatePtranEnergyAndEmissions modules. For each block group or TAZ, in base and horizon years, we will need to fill out nine fields.
>- _VanPropIcev_ - Proportion of transit van travel using internal combustion engine powertrains
>- _VanPropHev_ - Proportion of transit van travel using hybrid electric powertrains
>- _VanPropBev_ - Proportion of transit van travel using battery electric powertrains
>- _BusPropIcev_ - Proportion of transit bus travel using internal combustion engine powertrains
>- _BusPropHev_ - Proportion of transit bus travel using hybrid electric powertrains
>- _BusPropBev_ - Proportion of transit bus travel using battery electric powertrains
>- _RailPropIcev_ - Proportion of transit rail travel using internal combustion engine powertrains
>- _RailPropHev_ - Proportion of transit rail travel using hybrid electric powertrains
>- _RailPropEv_ - Proportion of transit rail travel using electric powertrains
### Sourcing


