documentation/Generating Input Tables/0. Model Definitition Files/0. Model Definition Files.md, before:

# **Model Definition Files**
[Module Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Inputs_and_Parameters.md#model-definition-files)

## **run_parameters.json** ❇️

>This file contains parameters that define key attributes of the model run and relationships to other model runs. A more detailed description of the file can be found [here](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#61-model-directory-structure). The results of model run are stored in a directory with the name specified by ```"DatastoreName"```. This name should be changed when running different scenarios. For e.g. when running base scenario the output directory name can be set to *BaseScenario* by using ```"DatastoreName": "BaseScenario"``` in the file. The format of this file is as follows:
>
>```json
>{
>    "Model": "VERSPM",
>    "Scenario": "Test",
>    "Description": "Test of VERSPM",
>    "Region": "DVRPC",
>    "BaseYear": "2019",
>    "Years": ["2019", "2050"],
>    "DatastoreName": "Datastore",
>    "DatastoreType": "RD",
>    "Seed": 1
>}
>```

### **Notes**
We should look into whether to do "RD" or "HDF5" format for the `DatastoreType`.

## model_parameters.json

>This file contains global parameters for a particular model configuration that may be used by multiple modules. A more detailed description of the file and its structure can be found [here](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#61-model-directory-structure). The source of the default $16/hr is per a Nov 2016 ODOT Report: ["The Value of Travel-Time: Estimates of the Hourly Value of Time for Vehicles in Oregon"](https://www.oregon.gov/ODOT/Data/Documents/Value-of-Travel-Time-for-Vehicles.pdf).
>
>The format of this file is as follows:
>
>```json
>[
>  {"NAME": "ValueOfTime", 
>   "VALUE": "16", 
>   "TYPE": "double", 
>   "UNITS": "base cost year dollars per hour"
>  }
>]
>```


### **Notes**
While ODOT's value may not be all that far off, we will seek this from our travel modeling group.

## deflators.csv

>This file defines the annual deflator values, such as the consumer price index, that are used to convert currency values between different years for currency denomination. This file does not need to be modified unless the years for which the dollar values used in the input dataset is not contained in this file. The format of the file is as follows:
>
>|              Year          |             Value          |
>|----------------------------|----------------------------|
>|              1999          |             172.6          |
>|              2000          |             178.0          |
>|              2001          |             182.4          |
>|              ...           |             ...            |
>|              2010          |             218.344        |
>|              ...           |             ...            |
>|              2016          |             249.426        |
### **Notes**
We'll need to look into taking some CPI numbers from some recent downloads for tracking progress. I'm assuming we need a 2019 value. I don't know how many other years we may want to have.

## geo.csv

This file describes all of the geographic relationships for the model and the names of geographic entities in a CSV formatted text file. [**Azone**](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#62-model-geography), [**Bzone**](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#62-model-geography), and [**Marea**](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#62-model-geography) should remain consistent with the input data. The format of the file is as follows:

| Azone       | Bzone          | Czone      | Marea      |
| ----------- | -------------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| 3402103       | 340076089033  | NA         | 34      |
| 3402103       | 340076089032  | NA         | 34      |
| 3402002       | 340057038043  | NA         | 34      |
| 3402002       | 340057040111  | NA         | 34      |
| 4203404       | 420293031001  | NA         | 42      |
| 4203404       | 420293111001  | NA         | 42      |
| 4203304       | 420454102001  | NA         | 42      |
| 4203304       | 420454102002  | NA         | 42      |

### **Notes**
Decisions on geographies are documented [here](https://github.com/dvrpc/DVRPC-VisionEval-Inputs-Preparation/tree/main/Geographies%20Used). The above table is adapted from VisionEval documentation but contains examples of the table set up we will start with. 

## units.csv

>This file describes the default units to be used for storing complex data types in the model. This file should NOT be modified by the user. The format of the file is as follows:
>
>| Type                 | Units            |
>| -------------------- | ---------------- |
>| currency             | USD              |
>| distance             | MI               |
>| area                 | SQMI             |
>| mass                 | KG               |
>| volume               | GAL              |
>| time                 | DAY              |
>| energy               | GGE              |
>| people               | PRSN             |
>| trips                | VEH              |
>| area                 | TRIP             |
>| households           | HH               |
>| employment           | JOB              |
>| activity             | HHJOB            |
>
>The VisionEval model system keeps track of the types and units of measure of all data that is processed. More details about the file and structure can be found [here](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#63-data-types-units-and-currency-deflators).

Commit message:

addded notes about getting the model def tables

documentation/Generating Input Tables/0. Model Definitition Files/0. Model Definition Files.md, after:

# **Model Definition Files**
[Module Documentation](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Docs/blob/master/tutorials/verspm/Inputs_and_Parameters.md#model-definition-files)

## **run_parameters.json** ❇️

>This file contains parameters that define key attributes of the model run and relationships to other model runs. A more detailed description of the file can be found [here](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#61-model-directory-structure). The results of model run are stored in a directory with the name specified by ```"DatastoreName"```. This name should be changed when running different scenarios. For e.g. when running base scenario the output directory name can be set to *BaseScenario* by using ```"DatastoreName": "BaseScenario"``` in the file. The format of this file is as follows:
>
>```json
>{
>    "Model": "VERSPM",
>    "Scenario": "Test",
>    "Description": "Test of VERSPM",
>    "Region": "DVRPC",
>    "BaseYear": "2019",
>    "Years": ["2019", "2050"],
>    "DatastoreName": "Datastore",
>    "DatastoreType": "RD",
>    "Seed": 1
>}
>```

### **Notes**
We should look into whether to do "RD" or "HDF5" format for the `DatastoreType`.

## model_parameters.json

>This file contains global parameters for a particular model configuration that may be used by multiple modules. A more detailed description of the file and its structure can be found [here](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#61-model-directory-structure). The source of the default $16/hr is per a Nov 2016 ODOT Report: ["The Value of Travel-Time: Estimates of the Hourly Value of Time for Vehicles in Oregon"](https://www.oregon.gov/ODOT/Data/Documents/Value-of-Travel-Time-for-Vehicles.pdf).
>
>The format of this file is as follows:
>
>```json
>[
>  {"NAME": "ValueOfTime", 
>   "VALUE": "16", 
>   "TYPE": "double", 
>   "UNITS": "base cost year dollars per hour"
>  }
>]
>```


### **Notes**
While ODOT's value may not be all that far off, we will seek this from our travel modeling group.

## deflators.csv

>This file defines the annual deflator values, such as the consumer price index, that are used to convert currency values between different years for currency denomination. This file does not need to be modified unless the years for which the dollar values used in the input dataset is not contained in this file. The format of the file is as follows:
>
>|              Year          |             Value          |
>|----------------------------|----------------------------|
>|              1999          |             172.6          |
>|              2000          |             178.0          |
>|              2001          |             182.4          |
>|              ...           |             ...            |
>|              2010          |             218.344        |
>|              ...           |             ...            |
>|              2016          |             249.426        |
### **Notes**
We'll need to look into taking some CPI numbers from some recent downloads for tracking progress. I'm assuming we need a 2019 value. I don't know how many other years we may want to have.

> 08/25 (Fiza) Annual deflator values were obtained using the bls_conversion script provided by Ian S, in order to attain the input data from the BLS I had to first download it as a csv and manually read it into the script because of issues with my R program that wouldnt let me use the API and load it in from the internet. After getting the conversion values I imported them into an excel file and loaded it into PostgreSQL

## geo.csv

This file describes all of the geographic relationships for the model and the names of geographic entities in a CSV formatted text file. [**Azone**](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#62-model-geography), [**Bzone**](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#62-model-geography), and [**Marea**](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#62-model-geography) should remain consistent with the input data. The format of the file is as follows:

| Azone       | Bzone          | Czone      | Marea      |
| ----------- | -------------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| 3402103       | 340076089033  | NA         | 34      |
| 3402103       | 340076089032  | NA         | 34      |
| 3402002       | 340057038043  | NA         | 34      |
| 3402002       | 340057040111  | NA         | 34      |
| 4203404       | 420293031001  | NA         | 42      |
| 4203404       | 420293111001  | NA         | 42      |
| 4203304       | 420454102001  | NA         | 42      |
| 4203304       | 420454102002  | NA         | 42      |

### **Notes**
Decisions on geographies are documented [here](https://github.com/dvrpc/DVRPC-VisionEval-Inputs-Preparation/tree/main/Geographies%20Used). The above table is adapted from VisionEval documentation but contains examples of the table set up we will start with. 

>08/25 (Fiza)- CSV file was created by manually adding czone and marea and importing the results from the bzone_to_azone script (which can be found in generate_tables.py file under Transform section). Howeverm there wouldnt be a need to manually fill in Maraa if the folllowing line was added under the select statement

SELECT 


LEFT(b.geoid10,2) as Marea

I wasnt able to go back and test this due to time constraints.

## units.csv

>This file describes the default units to be used for storing complex data types in the model. This file should NOT be modified by the user. The format of the file is as follows:
>
>| Type                 | Units            |
>| -------------------- | ---------------- |
>| currency             | USD              |
>| distance             | MI               |
>| area                 | SQMI             |
>| mass                 | KG               |
>| volume               | GAL              |
>| time                 | DAY              |
>| energy               | GGE              |
>| people               | PRSN             |
>| trips                | VEH              |
>| area                 | TRIP             |
>| households           | HH               |
>| employment           | JOB              |
>| activity             | HHJOB            |
>
>The VisionEval model system keeps track of the types and units of measure of all data that is processed. More details about the file and structure can be found [here](https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md#63-data-types-units-and-currency-deflators).
